Teaser block docs (#4461)
plone/volto: docs/source/blocks/core/teaser.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Volto Teaser Block description and developer notes"
    "property=og:description": "Volto Teaser Block description and developer notes"
    "property=og:title": "Volto Teaser Block"
    "keywords": "Volto, React, blocks, teaser, Plone"
---

(teaser-block)=

# Teaser Block

```{versionadded} Volto 16.14.0
```

> Volto comes with a Teaser block that given a content object as target is able to pull information from it and show it in the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volto comes with a Teaser block, which when given a content object as a target, is able to pull information from the targeted content object and show it in the block.
```

By default, this information includes the `title`, `description`, and `preview_image`.

> It shows them in a summary layout, with the image on the left, and the title and description on the right, with the description below the title.

Author: Done

## Data adapter

The Teaser has a data adapter function that allows you to both tap into the changes in the settings and issue changes in other settings fields.
This is valuable in the Teaser block because it saves an internal cache of the target element.
If you select the target, these values are updated.
When you update the target, by default these values remain, but you can issue another behavior.

The data adapter function is defined in the block's setting `dataAdapter`.
You can override it and add your own function, if required.
The following is the default adapter.
You should stick to this signature in your custom adapters.

```js
import { isEmpty } from 'lodash';

export const TeaserBlockDataAdapter = ({
  block,
  data,
  id,
  onChangeBlock,
  value,
}) => {
  let dataSaved = {
    ...data,
    [id]: value,
  };
  if (id === 'href' && !isEmpty(value) && !data.title && !data.description) {
    dataSaved = {
      ...dataSaved,
      title: value[0].Title,
      description: value[0].Description,
      head_title: value[0].head_title,
    };
  }
  onChangeBlock(block, dataSaved);
};
```

## Custom components in registry

> The Teaser block looks up a couple of components in the registry that you can provide in case you want to modify the default behavior.

Author: Done!

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Volto Teaser Block description and developer notes"
    "property=og:description": "Volto Teaser Block description and developer notes"
    "property=og:title": "Volto Teaser Block"
    "keywords": "Volto, React, blocks, teaser, Plone"
---

(teaser-block)=

# Teaser Block

```{versionadded} Volto 16.14.0
```

Volto comes with a Teaser block, which when given a content object as a target, is able to pull information from the targeted content object and show it in the block.
By default, this information includes the `title`, `description`, `head_title`, and `preview_image` fields.

> It shows them in a summary layout, with the image on the left, and the title and description on the right, with the description below the title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It shows them in a summary layout, with the image on the left, and the head title, title, and description on the right in order from top to bottm.
```

> It shows them in a summary layout, with the image on the left, and the head title, title, and description on the right in order from top to bottm.

Author: ```suggestion
It shows them in a summary layout, with the image on the left, and the head title, title, and description on the right in order from top to bottom.
```
